# § 2.2 Person Schema

NIST’s Informative Reference Catalog, NIST’s Open Security Controls Assessment Language \(OSCAL\), TagVault.org’s Software Identification Tags \(SWID Tags\), the Unified Compliance Framework, and SIGLEX \(a Special Interest Group on the Lexicon of the Association for Computational Linguistics\) all identify various forms of contributors to their content. These contributors are listed as anything from primary authors, through editors, through “commentators” of contributed content to their various repositories of information. We will this collective group **contributors**.

Contributors to these systems must be tracked; for accountability of content, for accolades as contributors, for any number or reasons. Unlike tracking a single system’s users wherein each user can be assigned a permanent and unique ID that remains constant as factoids about the user change \(their name, their email, their address\), _shared systems_ cannot reasonably assign a unique user ID between them as that would create the potential for myriad international privacy regulations.

Before we discuss the schema, we must first discuss disambiguating a person from an agent or another person.

## Disambiguation of persons

**The problem, therefore,** is how to

1. disambiguate a user so that we know Joe Smith is _that_ Joe Smith and not some _other_ Joe Smith, and
2. allow those disambiguating characteristics to be persisted between systems so that as factoids change \(name, address, email, etc.\) the disambiguated Joe Smith remains _that_ Joe Smith instead of some _other_ Joe Smith.

### Persons versus agents

As Dan Brickley and Libbey Miller, co-authors of the FOAF \(Friend of a Friend\) Project, people _as well as_ bots can have e-mail addresses, chat addresses, etc. Distinguishing Joe Smith from a Joe Smith bot can’t be done by just checking an email address. Therefore, personal identity disambiguation must begin with disambiguating _people_ from _things_. Until one passes the Turing test, a computer, which manages bots and various software agents, will remain an antonym of person. Therefore, throughout the rest of this discussion, we will use the following terms and definitions \(the term is a linked item to the ComplianceDictionary.com’s entry for the term\):

| **Term** | **Definition** |
| :--- | :--- |
| [agent](https://compliancedictionary.com/term/3457) | A program acting on behalf of a person or organization. |
| [bot](https://compliancedictionary.com/term/11315) | A robot; A piece of software designed to complete a minor but repetitive task automatically and on command. |
| [natural person](https://compliancedictionary.com/term/257044) | A living human being. Legal systems can attach rights and duties to natural persons without their express consent. |

Because a bot is a type of agent, we will refer to all computerized processes that communicate **agents**.

### Disambiguating a person from an agent

The world is inundated with fake accounts on social media platforms run by bots of various types and for various reasons. Merely having an e-mail address or social media address isn’t enough to disambiguate a person from an agent. A shibboleth of sorts is necessary to distinguish the two.

In 2015 DARPA initiated a Twitter Bot challenge to determine person or agent. At that time, they came up with five criteria \(user profile, syntax, semantics, behavior, network features\) to disambiguate between person and agent. Since that time, Google’s Duplex and IBM’s Watson and Project Debator have made huge leaps in their capabilities to use syntax, semantics, and even linguistic behaviors. This leaves two characteristics still in play as a potential shibboleth:

1. **User Profile** – links to other accounts, biography, etc.
2. **Network features** – how distinct the person’s “network” is, i.e., where they work and others they connect to.

We will save the discussion of the various objects that should be tracked in a person’s profile for later, for now, we’ll just call this collection of objects a person’s **information**.

Since the DARPA challenge, a great deal of research and practical application has been put into place in order to disambiguate natural persons from agents as well as personal name disambiguation \(once you know Joe Smith isn’t an agent, knowing Joe Smith is _that_ Joe Smith versus another one\). So much so, that there are several methodologies for extracting information about both people and organizations from given information such as URLs and email addresses. We will cover each below as the information that can be collected from each source is different.

### Extracting personal information from organizational email addresses

Various organizations have developed full-blown APIs for providing in-depth information about people, usually for marketing purposes, using their email addresses and domain names.

First and foremost, personal email addresses, such as those from Hotmail, Apple, Google, Yahoo, etc. cannot be used for extracting personal information. They just can’t. Any personal information extracted must be extracted from organizational email because the applications, such as ClearBit, FullContact, BigPicture, Powrbot, Crunchbase, ID.me, etc. all focus on business-to-business marketing, and as such, organizational e-mails. We will call these **disambiguating APIs**.

It is our postulation that there is enough information found within amalgamating information from a couple of the disambiguating APIs to put together a personal profile that is both disambiguating _and_ persistent in nature _without_ the need for a personal UUID for coherency.

A natural person can be disambiguated with persisting information when described in JSON-LD format using an amalgam of information found using disambiguating APIs.

The beginning schema for describing a disambiguated person will be presented in JSON-LD format herein and will be maintained online at [http://grcschema.org/Person](http://grcschema.org/Person). Core personal information is broken down into several Things, listed below.

## § 2.2 Person

This describes a known person. The beginning schema for describing a disambiguated person will be presented in JSON-LD format herein, and will be maintained online at [http://grcschema.org/Person](http://grcschema.org/Person). Core personal information is broken down into several Things, listed below, with the common elements being covered previously.

| **Property** | **Expected Type** | **Description** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ​ id ​ | ​ Integer ​ | A unique and persistent identifier for the record. |
| ​ PostalAddress ​ | ​ Thing ​ | The address to which physical mail and packages are delivered. |
| ​ SocialAddresses ​ | ​ Thing ​ | The various Internet locations that help disambiguate a person, such as their FaceBook, LinkedIn, YouTube and Twitter Address. |
| ​ PersonName ​ | ​ Thing ​ | All of the name properties associated with a real person's name. |
| ​ PersonEmail ​ | ​ Thing ​ | All of the various email addresses that could be associated with a person. |
| ​ CoreMetaData ​ | ​ Thing ​ | Metadata documenting the ID and core information about a JSON Thing. |
| ​ AdditionalNames ​ | ​ Thing ​ | Additional names that are used by a Person |
| ​ AdditionalEmails ​ | ​ Thing ​ | Additional email addresses. |
| ​ AdditionalPostalAddresses ​ | ​ Thing ​ | Additional postal addresses. |

‌Many of the elements within Person are _Things_ unto themselves and are described below.

### § 2.2.1 PersonName

All of the name properties associated with a real person’s name.

| **Property** | **Expected Type** | **Description** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| first\_name | Text | The person's first name. |
| last\_name | Text | The person's last name. |
| middle\_initial | Char | A person's middle initial. |
| name\_prefix | String or Null | The prefix before a person's name, such as Dr., Mr., Mrs. |
| name\_suffix | String | The suffix after a person's name, such as Jr., III, etc. |

### ‌§ 2.2.2 PersonEmail

‌All of the various email addresses that could be associated with a person.

| **Property** | **Expected Type** | **Description** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ​ work\_email ​ | ​ Email or Null | An email address belonging to a person associated with their work account. |
| ​ personal\_email ​ | ​ Email or Null | An email address belonging to a person not associated with their work account. |

### § 2.2.3 AdditionalNames

‌Additional names that are used by a Person.

| **Property** | **Expected Type** | **Description** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| first\_name | Text | The person's first name. |
| last\_name | Text | The person's last name. |
| middle\_initial | Char | A person's middle initial. |
| name\_prefix | String or Null | The prefix before a person's name, such as Dr., Mr., Mrs. |
| name\_suffix | String | The suffix after a person's name, such as Jr., III, etc. |

### § 2.2.4 AdditionalEmails

‌Additional email addresses for a Person.

| **Property** | **Expected Type** | **Description** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ​ email ​ | ​ Email or Null | Electronic Mail address. |
| ​ id ​ | ​ Integer ​ | A unique and persistent identifier for the record. |
| ​ person\_fk ​ | ​ Integer ​ | Person foreign key |

### § 2.2.5 AdditionalPostalAddresses

‌These are the additional postal addresses an organization or person can be associated with.

| **Property** | **Expected Type** | **Description** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ​ address1 ​ | ​ String ​ | The first part of a postal address such as the building number and street name |
| ​ address2 ​ | ​ String or Null | The second part of a postal address, usually denoting a suite. |
| ​ city ​ | ​ String ​ | The city the address is located in. |
| ​ stateTerritoryProvince ​ | ​ String ​ | The state, territory, or province for the address. |
| ​ postal\_code ​ | ​ String ​ | The postal/zip code for the address. |
| ​ country ​ | ​ String ​ | The country the address is located in. |
| ​ country\_code ​ | ​ String ​ | This is a geographical code that represents countries. |

### 

